.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
..
.Id $Header: prop.1,v 1.0b 04/01/06 12:00:00 rapacki Exp $
.TH prop 1 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
prop \- predict propeptide cleavage sites in proteins
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBprop\fP [\fB-g\fP] [\fB-h\fP] [\fB-p\fP] [\fB-s\fP] [\fB-v\fP]
[\fIfile\fP] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B prop
predicts arginine and lysine propeptide cleavage sites in eukaryotic protein
sequences using an ensemble of neural networks. Furin-specific prediction is
the default. It is also possible to perform a general proprotein convertase
(PC) prediction (\fB\-p\fP). The entire method is described in detail
in the reference quoted below.

The input sequences are read from \fIfiles\fP or, if no file is specified,
from the standard input. The input format is Pearson \fBFASTA\fP.

The default output is text; it will go to \fIstdout\fP. For each input protein
the length, name and sequence are shown with an indication of the predicted
cleavage sites. Then follows a table in which the prediction scores for each
potential propeptide cleavage site are given in detail; the columns are:

.B *
Sequence name

.B *
Position in the sequence

.B *
Context:
.in +2n
7 amino acids to the left and 2 amino acids to the right of the potential
cleavage site.
.in -2n

.B *
Prediction score:
.in +2n
The scores are in the range (0.0-1.0), where the scores
above the fixed threshold of \fB0.5\fP indicate a potential cleavage
site. The higher the score the higher the confidence of the prediction.
.in -2n

If the verbose output format (\fB-v\fP) is chosen the scores produced
by the 4 individual neural networks are shown as well, alongside the average
score.

If \fBprop\fP is configured to use \fBsignalp\fP it also possible
to include signal peptide cleavage site predictions
in the output (\fB\-s\fP). If a propeptide cleavage site is predicted
inside a predicted signal peptide a warning is issued.

If the graphics option (\fB-g\fP) is selected, a graphical
illustration of the predictions is generated. One \fBGIF\fP file
per input protein is produced.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-g
Generate graphics, plotting the strength of the cleavage site prediction
(between 0 and 1) against the position in the sequence of the arginine or
lysine residue being examined. One \fBGIF\fP file for each input sequence
is generated.
.TP
.B \-h
Show the allowed command line syntax and exit.
.TP
.B \-p
Perform general proprotein convertase (PC) prediction instead of the
default furin-specific prediction.
.TP
.B \-s
Include signal peptide cleavage site prediction.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose output: the scores produced by the 4 individual neural networks
are shown alongside the average score.
.TP
.I file ...
The input files to process. If no file is specified, \fIstdin\fP will be
used instead.
.SH AUTHORS
Peter Duckert, peterd@cbs.dtu.dk, August 2001.
.br
Nikolaj Blom, nikob@cbs.dtu.dk, August 2001.
.SH REFERENCES
The method is described in detail in the following article:

Prediction of proprotein convertase cleavage sites.
.br
Peter Duckert, Soren Brunak, and Nikolaj Blom
.br
Protein Engineering, Design and Selection 17:107-112, 2004

Information on the method can also be found at:

     http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/ProP/
.SH FILES
\fB/usr/cbs/bio/bin/prop\fP             main executable
.br
\fB/usr/cbs/bio/src/prop-1.0b\fP        software home
.SH SEE ALSO
fasta(1), how(1), signalp(1)



