.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
..
.Id $Header: example.1,v 1.2 94/02/15 13:28:25 rapacki Exp $
.TH netphos 1 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
netphos \- predict phosphorylation sites in proteins
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnetphos\fP [\fB\-2\fP] [\fB\-b\fP] [\fB\-c\fP \fIcutoff\fP]
[\fB\-d\fP \fIdir\fP] [\fB\-g\fP] [\fB\-f\fP \fIfmt\fP] [\fB\-h\fP]
        [\fB\-k\fP] [\fB\-s\fP] [\fB\-t\fP] [\fB\-y\fP] [\fB\-S\fP]
[\fB\-V\fP] [\fIfile\fP ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B netphos
predicts phosphorylation sites in eukaryotic proteins using ensembles of
neural networks. Both kinase specific and generic predictions
are performed. The method is described in detail in the references quoted
below.

.B Input

The input sequences are read from \fIfile\fP or, if no file is specified,
from \fIstdin\fP. The required input format is \fBFASTA\fP. The non-standard
amino acid symbols in the input (not in <\fBACDEFGHIKLMNPQRSTVWY\fP>)
will be replaced with \fBX\fP (undefined) prior to processing.

Syntax errors in the input are reported to \fIstderr\fP. The entry names
are truncated to 20 characters. Special characters (other
than \fBA-Za-z0-9+,-.\fP) in the entry names are replaced with
the underscore (\fB_\fP). The nameless entries, if any, are given
unique names.

If the input entry names are not unique, or if the entry
name modifications mentioned above result in non-unique
names only the first encountered entry with a given name
will be considered. Thus, the output entries always have
unique names.

.B Output

The default output is text; it will go to \fIstdout\fP. For each input
sequence the length and the name of the sequence are stated followed by
a table with the prediction results. The columns are as follows:

    \fB*\fP Sequence name (see \fBInput\fP above)

    \fB*\fP Residue number

    \fB*\fP Residue

    \fB*\fP Sequence context: a sequence fragment centered on
      the residue in question with flanks of 4 residues;

    \fB*\fP Prediction score: a number in the range [0.000-1.000];
      when the score is above \fB0.5\fP the residue is a predicted
      phosphorylation site, the higher the score the more
      secure the prediction;

    \fB*\fP Kinase (for kinase specific predictions) or "\fIunsp\fP"
      (unspecified, for generic predictions)

    \fB*\fP Answer: "\fIYES\fP" if the score is above \fB0.5\fP and a dot
      (".") otherwise.

Each table row reports the results of the prediction for one sequence residue
(\fBS\fP, \fBT\fP or \fBY\fP) and one specific kinase. Thus, there are several
rows for a given residue, sorted by score, in decreasing order. It is possible
to select a subset of predictions to run 
(\fB\-2\fP,\fB\-k\fP,\fB\-s\fP,\fB\-t\fP,\fB\-y\fP)
and a subset of scores to display
(\fB\-b\fP,\fB\-c\fP).

After the table, the whole sequence is printed alongside a summary of the
predicted phosphorylation sites and their positions.

An alternative output format may be chosen (\fB\-f\fP). Currrently, only
.B GFF
is supported (see below).

A graphical illustration of the predictions (\fB\-d,\-g\fP) can be generated
(independent of the output format).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-2
Run generic predictions only, as in NetPhos 2.0
(see http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetPhos-2.0/).
.TP
.B \-b
Report only the best (highest) score for each residue.
.TP
.BI "\-c" " cutoff"
Report only the scores higher than \fIcutoff\fP. Choosing \fB0.5\fP implies
reporting only the predicted sites.
.TP
.BI "\-d" " dir"
Put the graphics files in \fIdir\fP. The default is the current working
directory. This option has no effect unless \fB\-g\fP is also given.
.TP
.BI "\-f" " fmt"
Produce output in the format \fIfmt\fP rather than the default
table. Currently \fBgff\fP is the only alternative (see
http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Software/formats/GFF/).
.TP
.B \-g
Generate graphics, plotting the highest score reported for each residue
against the sequence position of that residue. One \fBGIF\fP file
is generated for each sequence. NOTE: the graphics files only show
a summary of the predictions as the lower scores are ignored.
.TP
.B \-h
Show the allowed command line syntax and exit.
.TP
.B \-k
Run kinase specific predictions only, as in NetPhosK 1.0
(see http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetPhosK-1.0/).
.TP
.B \-s
Predict only on the \fBS\fP (serine) residues. The default is to predict
on all of \fBS, \fP\fBT\fP and \fBY\fP.
.TP
.B \-t
Predict only on the \fBT\fP (threonine) residues. The default is to predict
on all of \fBS, \fP\fBT\fP and \fBY\fP.
.TP
.B \-y
Predict only on the \fBY\fP (tyrosine) residues. The default is to predict
on all of \fBS, \fP\fBT\fP and \fBY\fP.
.TP
.B \-S
Include the sequence in the output (\fBgff\fP only, the default output
format always contains the sequence).
.TP
.B \-V
Print the version number and the date of release. No other action
will be performed.
.TP
.I "file ..."
The input file to process. If not specified, \fIstdin\fP will be used
instead. The format must be \fBFASTA\fP.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Exit status is \fB0\fP if no errors have occurred and non-zero
otherwise. In the latter case an explanatory diagnostic message
will appear on \fIstdout\fP.
.SH VERSION
.B netphos
is under development and predictions for new kinases are added
constantly. The current version is 3.1b, Nov 2005.
.SH AUTHORS
Nikolaj Blom, nikob@cbs.dtu.dk;
.br
Thomas Sicheritz-Ponten, thomas@cbs.dtu.dk.
.SH REFERENCES
Generic predictions:

Blom N, Gammeltoft S, Brunak S (1999).
"Sequence and structure-based prediction of eukaryotic protein
phosphorylation sites".
J Mol Biol. 1999 294(5):1351-62.

Kinase specific predictions:

Blom N, Sicheritz-Ponten T, Gupta R, Gammeltoft S, Brunak S (2004).
"Prediction of post-translational glycosylation and phosphorylation
of proteins from the amino acid sequence".
Proteomics. 2004 4(6):1633-49. Review. 

The \fBnetphos\fP website can also be consulted for details:

.in +5n
http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/NetPhos/
.in 5n

.SH FILES
.B /usr/opt/bin/netphos
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBfasta\fP(1)

